In the business world, creativity manifests itself as innovation. Creative confidence is the ability to come up with new ideas and the courage to try them out.

Design thinking is a methodology for innovating routinely. Design thinking has been around in the design research literature for decades and was adapted for business purposes, most famously by the design firm IDEO. David Kelley, founder of IDEO and his brother, are the authors of this informational work that champions the idea that we are all creative -- at least we were as kids -- and we can rekindle that creativity once we learn to manage our mindsets.

The sweet spot in design thinking lies at the intersection of people (what's desirable), technical (what's feasible) and business (what's viable). The methodology involves adapting, iterating and pivoting your way through rapid (quick and dirty) rounds of prototypes.

Examples of how to implement this methodology are culled from projects worked on by more than 700 students who have attended d.school at Stanford. Think: business school (B-school) for innovation (d.school). The d.school was also founded by David Kelley.

One technique discussed is the use of guided mastery which features a long sequence of challenges, tailoring each subsequent step to be just within reach. Doubts in one's creative ability can be cured by guiding people through a series of small successes. The faster you find weaknesses during an innovation cycle, the faster you can improve what needs fixing.

Think of this process as "enlightened trial and error." Thomas Edison was a master practitioner of this technique.

Fun Anecdote: Two kids in England attend the same high school at the same time in different grades. Both had the same music teacher. Neither received good marks from this teacher or received any particular attention in music class. These two kids kept searching and found encouragement elsewhere when they met John and Ringo and formed a band.

Teachers, parents and business leaders all have the power to support or suppress creative confidence in those around them. Give credit where credit is due. Pay attention to signs that someone around you is feeling undervalued and has lost his or her self-confidence.

Creative Confidence: Unleashing the Creative Potential Within Us All deserves it's ranking as one of the Best Business Books of 2013.
