Drive is a book about motivation. It helps you get inside your own head, as well as the minds of others. Therefore, anyone in a managerial or leadership position can benefit from the insights offered by Daniel Pink.

Technology enthusiasts can relate to Pink's analogy between motivation and computer operating systems. Motivation 1.0 (the first drive) can be compared to primitive flight or flight motivation. Motivation 2.0 (the second drive) incorporates rewards and punishments. Over the past several decades dress codes have relaxed and work schedules have become more flexible giving the corporate workforce Motivation 2.1, the current standard for managing for performance.

Daniel Pink want to bring the workplace into the 21st Century by introducing Motivation 3.0 (the third drive) and contends that the modern workplace is being run inefficiently on an outdated 20th Century operating system that causes numerous glitches and occasional systems failures.

Routine white collar work is disappearing, or at least racing offshore where is can be performed more cheaply. More creative, less-routine work is where value can be added to most effectively move the needle of the economy forward. Creative workers must be managed differently and are less responsive to managers whose training only includes Motivation 2.1 tools.

The three core elements of Motivation 3.0 are autonomy, mastery and purpose. Key insights:

~ autonomy: the most autonomy-crushing mechanism imaginable is the billable hour.
~ mastery: encouragement, rather than compliance, is the key to helping workers achieve mastery.
~ purpose: individuals are less motivated by profit and more motivated by purpose and managers should manage accordingly.

If you are in a leadership role and expect results from others, then check out "Carrots and Sticks: The Seven Deadly Flaws" (page 59). This list should pique your interest enough to consider upgrading your organization from an outdated Motivation 2.1 operating system to help "Drive" growth and outpace the competition.

Additional resources: If you like the premise of this book, consider reading Switch How to Change Things When Change Is Hard.
