This book explores how technology is disrupting the future, in particular, exponentially accelerating technology which doubles in power while dropping in price on a regular basis. Whenever a new technology offers a tenfold increase in value -- cheaper, faster and better -- there's little that can slow it down.

A new invention that creates a new market is referred to as a "disruptive innovation." A paradigm-shifting technology example would be silicon chips replacing vacuum tubes. From a business perspective the application of disruptive technology leads to a business disruption like the one witnessed when Netflix replaced Blockbuster.

Exponential technology topics discussed include the following: quantum computing, machine learning, artificial intelligence, Internet of Things, LIDAR, robotics, virtual and augmented reality, 3-D printing, digital currencies, blockchain, nanotechnology, CRISPR, and more.

The authors focus the majority of the chapter discussions exploring the future of industry segments including the following: shopping, advertising, entertainment, education, healthcare, longevity, finance and food.

The reason <b>The Future is Faster Than You Think</b> is that these technology breakthroughs are converging and accelerating the pace of innovation. The practical implication of this acceleration is that jobs will be created for some and jobs will disappear for many.

The one discussion that might be lacking in this exploration is the perspective of the consequences to society as a result of these exponentially accelerating technologies. Surely there will be downsides, as well as, unintended consequences.

None-the-less, a perspective to contemplate: At the turn of last century, many of the more privileged people on Planet Earth did not have air-conditioning, running water, indoor plumbing, automobiles, refrigerators, telephones or computers. What "conveniences" will our children's children access in the near future that we can only contemplate today in the form of science fiction?

[book:The Future Is Faster Than You Think: How Converging Technologies Are Transforming Business, Industries, and Our Lives|52290273] is one of the <b>Best Business Books of 2020</b> and is among <b>The Most Recommended Business Books of the Last Decade</b>.
