It has always been a mystery to me how Google makes money hand over fist. This book provides insights from two of the senior executives who have had a seat at the table for more than a decade.

So, how does Google mint money? The short answer is AdWords, Google's advertising platform. The in-depth answer is explained in chapters organized around the following core competencies that all organizations possess, but that Google seems to execute particularly well:

Culture, Strategy, Talent, Decisions, Communications, and Innovation

Execute in these six areas and you'll increase the odds that your organization is financially successful. A few examples that stood out include the following:

Culture: Don't listen to the HiPPOs (Highest Paid Person's Opinion). Organizations that are "tenurocracies" (power derived from tenure, not merit) are less likely to have strong cultures that enable long-term success.

Culture: Determine which people are having the biggest impact and organize around them.

Strategy: Find a (web) page that a lot of other pages point to, and you have probably found a page with higher-quality content. This is the core technical insight that Google was founded on. Bet on technical insights that help solve a problem in a novel way and let great products grow the market for everyone.

Strategy: We are entering a new period of "combinatorial innovation" which occurs when there is a great availability of different component parts that can be combined or recombined to create new inventions.

Strategy: Think platforms, not products. Example, YouTube is a platform which is a set of products and services that bring together groups of users and providers to form multisided markets.

Talent: Hiring should be based on bringing the best possible people into the company, even if their experience might not match one of the open roles.

Talent: One reason we value athletes is because sports teach how to rebound from loss.

Talent: Develop a growth mindset and set "learning goals."

Talent: Interviews shouldn't be overly stressful. The best interviews feel like intellectual discussions between friends.

Decisions: Spend 80 percent of your time on 80 percent of your revenue. (Credit: Bill Gates)

Communications: Your default mode should be to share everything.

Communications: In most aspects of life you need to say something about twenty times before it truly starts to sink in.

Communications: OHIO (Only Hold It Once) is a strategy for managing e-mail communications.

Innovation: Focus on the user and the money will follow.

Innovation: Ship and Innovate -- create a product, ship it, see how it does, design and implement improvements, and push it back out.

So, there you have it, the secret to a starting and managing a fabulously successful business.
