<blockquote>Without theory, we're at seas without a sextant.</blockquote>

Good theory helps people steer to good decisions—not just in business, but in life, too. However, the trap many people fall into is to allocate their time to whatever screams the loudest. That's a dangerous way to build a strategy.

Various theories are discussed here. One example is motivation theory. Two factors to consider within this theory are hygiene factors and motivation factors. Hygiene factors include things like status, compensation, job security and working conditions. Motivation factors include challenging work, recognition and personal growth. This second set of factors will motivate you and can make a difference between dreading or being excited to go to work every day. In order to find happiness you need to continue to look for opportunities to exploit these motivation factors. Careers that are often filled with motivators are often correlated with financial rewards.

Another theory centers on strategy. Again, consider two forms: deliberate strategy and emergent strategy. Deliberate strategy is a conscious choice based on assumptions. An emergent  strategy coalesces from myriad day-to-day decisions to pursue unanticipated opportunities and resolve unanticipated problems. When company leadership makes a clear decision to pursue a new direction, the emergent strategy becomes the deliberate strategy. Continually asking "What assumptions must prove true?" offers a simple way to keep strategy from going far off-course. What is less helpful in business, and in life, is having no strategy at all.

A strategy—whether in companies or in life—is created through hundreds of everyday decisions about how you spend your time, energy ad money. If the decisions you make about where you invest your blood, sweat and tears are not consistent with the person you aspire to be, you'll never become that person.

Companies focus too much on what they want to sell their customers, rather than what those customers really need. What's missing is empathy: a deep understanding of what problems customers are trying to solve. I personal relationships ask yourself "What job does my significant other most need me to do." Then, you have to do that job, consistently.

Self esteem is the sense that "I'm not afraid to confront this problem and I think I can solve it."

The theories start to fall short when applying business analysis to family functioning. Nonetheless, the discussions are thoughtful and the conclusion insightful. The type of person you want to become—what the purpose of your life is—is too important to leave to chance. It needs to be deliberately conceived, shosen and managed. "The only metrics that will truly matter to my life are the individuals whom I have been able to help, one by one, to become better people."

<b>[book:How Will You Measure Your Life?|13425570]</b> offers meaningful insights and measures up to being one of the <a href="https://beantownweb.blogspot.com/2013/02/best-business-books-2012.html" target="_blank"><b>Best Business Books of 2012</b></a>.


