Inbound marketing is about getting found online. Getting found by customers who might wish to purchase your products or services. Getting found by recruiters and hiring managers who might wish to employ your unique talents. If you wish to be found, get this book and practice its principles.

Written by the co-founders of HubSpot, an inbound marketing software company, Inbound Marketing will show you how marketing has changed in the era of social media and how you can change with the times.

Old-school, interruption-based outbound marketing (telemarketing, trade shows, print, radio and television advertising, etc.) has become less effective because consumers have gotten better at blocking out these interruptions. Inbound marketing, if executed properly, can counteract this trend.

The first strategy discussed is the transformation of your website from brochureware to a marketing hub. A free service that HubSpot provides called Website Grader can help you with this transformation.

Underlying this strategy is the development of "remarkable" content. Remarkable means unique and valuable. Another pillar is to focus on being the world's best in your market. If you are not the world's best then define your market more narrowly until you can demonstrate superiority in that space.

Your remarkable content can then be delivered to your target market via traditional social media vehicles such as blogs, Google search, Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, YouTube, etc. The authors outline strategies for each vehicle.

The most remarkable section might be the three chapters on "Converting Customers." The biggest problem most companies face is not converting more visitors to leads, but rather getting more visitors in the first place.

If you want customers to find you ... If you want recruiters to find you ... If you want more than what you have right now because you believe you have something remarkable to offer, then read Inbound Marketing: Get Found Using Google, Social Media, and Blogs and begin implementing proven marketing strategies in the social media era. If you don't, your competitors will.
