This book explores "three great trends that are reshaping the business world." In particular, we are currently experiencing three rebalancings:

~ minds to machines
~ products to platforms
~ the core to the crowd

The authors, two MIT faculty members, caution that "this is not a how-to book, or one that lays out a detailed playbook." Nonetheless, the logic presented, and the historic examples provided, indicate that Machine, Platform and Crowd are in ascendance.

As we transition from Minds to Machines, humans have to accept that, in many cases, relying primarily on numbers plugged into formulas often yields better results. Depending solely on intuition -- the highest paid person's opinion (HiPPO) -- frequently does not work well and too often destroys value. The most obvious approach is to let machines make decisions when and where they can. Over time, more and more companies are trusting the data and transitioning from Minds to Machines.

The transition from Products to Platforms introduces the economics of free, perfect and instant. Once something has been digitized, it's essentially free to make an additional copy. A prime example highlights the challenges within the music industry. Music CDs (products) were digitized and offered on Platforms (iTunes, Spotify, etc.). This transition allows for combinatorial innovation -- creating something new and valuable by putting together things that were already there. Topics from microeconomics, including supply and demand curves, the idea of complements and revenue management, are covered to help explain this transition from Products to Platforms in more rigorous detail.

The Core represents dominant organizations, institutions, groups and processes of the pre-internet era. The Crowd represents new participants and practices enabled by the internet. Think brick and mortar library vs. web-based entrants like Wikipedia. No one is "in charge of" this ocean of content on the web. Open source software fits into this model of crowd-sponsored content. An argument can be made that the Crowd is "better" than the Core. The Core can become stale, while the Crowd really can't.

Each of us possesses some piece of essential knowledge. As the lifespan of the many companies continues to shrink as a result of "creative destruction," it is up to workers to position themselves to benefit from, and not be consumed by, the Great Rebalancing that is traveling through our society. "As the power of our technologies grows, so do our future possibilities."

Machine, Platform, Crowd: Harnessing Our Digital Future is one of the Best Business Books of 2017.

"The future is already here – it's just not evenly distributed." ~ William Gibson
