
Making It All Work is a valuable companion to Getting Things Done: The Art of Stress-Free Productivity, the ultimate guide to getting anything and everything on track. The core tactic to stress-free productivity is to capture EVERYTHING into a trusted system.

The purpose of this volume is to reinforce and deepen the core principles of the first volume -- GTD to the uninitiated. Much of Making It All Work covers the concepts of the five stages of Control and the six stages of Perspective presented in the first volume. Lacking both Control and Perspective over your life leads to becoming a Victim of circumstances. The powerful place to be is Captain & Commander, that experience of having a high degree of Control over commitments combined with the Perspective that you are moving your life toward your long-term vision of your ideal self.

Sounds a bit hokey? Guess what? The approach works! I've been a practitioner of GTD principles for more than a year. The uninitiated would likely mock me as being hyper-organized. That's not the goal, but rather a byproduct of capturing anything and everything that occupies your mind. Until you collect these seemingly random thoughts about all things you need to do and haven't yet done, you run the risk of spinning your wheels and wasting energy.

I capture everything about my life into a paper-based system. Others implement a technology-based system. The organizational structure you implement is your choice, as long as it is trusted -- nothing falls through the cracks and comes back to surprise you.

Reading Making It All Work is a bit like watching The Godfather, Part 2. This movie might be just as good, if not better, than the original. However, watching The Godfather, Part 1 first helps to put the characters and events into proper perspective.

For anyone who feels that living a life that is out of control is "the new normal" consider reading Getting Things Done: The Art of Stress-Free Productivity and incorporating GTD principles into your daily life. To learn more access my five-star review of Getting Things Done.
