This book explores the discipline of behavioral economics (judgement and decision making). The author investigates human behavior at the intersection of psychology and economics. Irrationality refers to our distance from perfection. The author contends that this distance from perfection is predictable. We are all predictably irrational!

Each chapter explores different aspects of human behavior by use of academic experiments. Some of the experiments seem trivial. None-the-less, at the conclusion of each chapter the author attempts to establish broader implications for the economy and for society.

Among the concepts/experiments/conclusions:

~ Bring a friend (a decoy) with you to a party who has similar features but is slightly less attractive (a -you). You'll get more attention.

~ Anchoring -- first impressions and decisions become imprinted and used for comparison later on. For Starbucks to charge higher prices than Dunkin Donuts it had to create a very different environment so that customers wouldn't compare prices with the "anchor" price.

~ Zero is an emotional hot button -- a source of irrational excitement. Amazon customers will spend more than they planned (more than $25) to get free shipping.

~ Social norms vs. market norms. People will work for free (social norm) and will work for a fair wage (market norm), but offer a low wage and they will walk.

~ Procrastination. Restricting freedom with equally spaced deadlines imposed from above is the best cure for procrastination. Implication for goal-setting: repeatedly failing to achieve long-term goals is a source of much of our misery.

~ The "endowment effect" -- whatever we own we value more than other people do. We fall in love with what we already have. Implication: trial promotions work. Get people to try your product on a trial basis and it is harder for them to give it up.

~ People like having options, even when they make us unproductive. Start closing doors, especially commitments that are a waste of time.

~ Don't underestimate the power of presentation. It enhances brand reputation and increases the liklihood of purchase and/or enjoyment.

This book will make you think and challenge preconceived ideas.
