No sophomore slump for The Heath Brothers. Made to Stick was a five-star debut in 2007. Switch also earns top honors as one of the best business books of 2010.

"What looks like resistance is often lack of clarity."

"What looks like laziness if often exhaustion."

"What looks like a people problem is often a situation problem."

With these three observations the Heaths set out to present a framework for anyone in a leadership role attempting to influence change in others. The framework is presented with a clarity that few other authors achieve. Here is the formula for successful change:
"To change behavior, you've got to direct the Rider, motivate the Elephant, and shape the Path. It you can do all three at once dramatic change can happen."
Direct the Rider: We all have a Rider part of the brain that provides planning and direction. However, the Rider is prone to analysis paralysis. One technique to appeal to the Rider in others is to identify the bright spots. Identify what's working and how to do more of it.

Motivate the Elephant: We all have an elephant part of the brain that provides the energy and gets things done. However, the Elephant is easily demoralized. One technique to appeal to the Elephant in others is to shrink the change. Break large challenges into smaller, manageable tasks that can be acknowledged and rewarded.

Shape the Path: We can influence behavior in others by simply making the journey easier. Create a steep downhill slope and give them a push. By clearing the path of obstacles -- changing the situation -- others are more likely to perform up to expectations. Ask yourself "How can I set up a situation that brings out the good in people?"

Switch How to Change Things When Change Is Hard should NOT be on every manager's bookshelf. It should be on every manager's desk as a reference guide to be referred to daily, along with three other candidates for business books of 2010:

Linchpin Are You Indispensable
How Did That Happen Holding People Accountable for Results the Positive Principled Way
Getting Things Done
